So let's dive into going back
to 101 of Jim setting us up for
that first 30 days,
maybe picking it up around the 60-90 days,
maybe it's within that first
year of being a manager.
You've kind of got the lay of the land,
I'm saying kind of because
you don't know everything.
But you have enough to start to think
about, how do I help set my team up for
success?
I like to think about that in
a couple of ways here, is,
you're probably thinking about
what's the vision for my team,
like what are some of the high level
goals that I should be thinking about?
And then obviously very tactical roadmaps,
there's work getting done.
So maybe it's you're planning for
quarterly plans or you're executing
on sprints, but you're thinking about
the work and planning around that.
So I wanna think about team vision,
I think about this at a very high level.
It outlines your goals and really,
why do you exist as a team?
It's not getting in the weeds of well, we
build this feature or we own this product.
It may touch on that a little bit but
it's meant to be very high level.
So the people on your team know
why you exist, even your partners,
they know why you exist.
It should be really clear and
concise at a high level, and
this helps really articulate what the type
of work that you do on your team.
Whereas the roadmap, it's so
much more detailed, it's done more often,
maybe it is that quarterly time or
maybe it's two-week sprints, but
it's getting very practical on
the actual work that you are doing.
You're outlining milestones, hopefully
timelines, engineering is hard to estimate
but hopefully you're able to put timelines
to when things are being delivered.
Who's owning it,
which engineers like running that project,
you're thinking about
those types of things.
And it does lean on the vision
like what's your goal as a team,
you're breaking that down
into smaller chunks, and
that's where I see the difference
between a vision and a roadmap.
So how do you measure impact on,
not as being a manager, but
like even on your team's work?
Ultimately, we're not just creating cool
tech and features, there's a reason,
there's a business,
we're making money at some point in time.
And so you wanna know how is my team's
work impacting that business metric.
A lot of companies are using OKRs.
Show of hands, who's aware of OKRs?
Okay, it's few people, that's good.
Who's using them in
practice at their company?
All right, it's a little bit,
some, all right, okay.
OKRs are interesting way to
break down some of the work and
think about it to be more measurable.
Essentially, you have an objective and
then KRs, which are key results.
So, for an objective,
it's a little more of that high level,
it's an aspirational goal.
It's typically not tracked like every
couple of weeks, it's a little bit longer
of a term, maybe it's quarterly or yearly
that you're thinking about this objective.
It's trying to help provide a direction,
like a strategy that your team
should be going after, and
then it will be followed by key results.
And the key results are breaking
down into like specific,
measurable time bound outcomes.
And that helps track progress on how
are you achieving those metrics.
You can be wrong, you might say that
we're trying to make something perform
10% better and
you're trying to strive for that.
And you're gonna watch that metric
over time to see if you're actually
incrementally making it better.
These key results can often change for
the objective,
it doesn't have to be yearly,
it might be at more of the quarterly or
sprint planning and
that you're tracking it over time.
And each objective can
have multiple key results.
Mark.
>> One critique of OKRs is they're
overly focused on measurement.
>> Yes, I'm actually glad someone
called attention to that.
That's often been my problem with it,
is sometimes teams get really prescriptive
or thinking about how do we measure it.
And I think there's a lot of things you
should be measuring, but there are times
where you're just throwing metrics for
metrics sake, and that's not great.
It doesn't really make sense, it's
eating up a lot of your team's time and
you're trying to just basically provide.
It feels like process for
the sake of process, and so
I'm glad someone called that out because
that is something that I've often
struggled with, we don't need an OKR for
every single thing we do.
I do wanna provide a bit of an example,
especially for
some of the people who are maybe
not as familiar with it.
I'm gonna kind of focus on one that
I think is always easy as a user of
an application.
Performance matters, I don't want things
to load slow, and I think as we're
building products as engineers we don't
want it to be slow for our customers.
So maybe your objective is that you wanna
enhance the application performance.
Pretty high level, it's not very specific,
but that's what you're wanting to achieve.
So you wanna then have KRs,
how are you gonna measure that?
Maybe you're reducing the average
application loading time to under
2 seconds, right?
Something that's measurable,
you can monitor that,
maybe it's at 5 seconds right now, and
so how are you reducing that over time?
Maybe it's decreasing the error rate
to less than 1%, definitely could help.
And maybe you're just improving
the response time on the server,
maybe it's 95% of the requests
served in under 100 milliseconds.
And so you can look at baselines of
what's happening now, and then as you're
working towards that objective to
reduce or improve the performance.
You can see this over time and
monitor this and
are we actually effectively making change.
So some of the things, yeah, you can
absolutely measure, but don't overdo it.
Another metric that I like is KPIs,
which is Key Performance Indicators.
Show of hands,
who's familiar with this one?
All right, are you using these today?
Okay, so some of you are, that's great.
They're usually ones I think about as
something that you're tracking for
a longer term.
It may be just something that you're
paying attention to as a team for
a long term.
They're very specific, quantifiable
metrics that measure maybe its
performance or
progress in a particular area.
They're often tied to those operational or
broader objectives, and,
like I mentioned, they're on
an ongoing thing, you're looking at it.
Maybe it is that you wanna keep
that speed at 100 milliseconds and
you do not want to exceed it.
So an example, application response time.
Maybe you wanna target that to
maintain an average spot time
from under 500 milliseconds for
all critical user actions.
So maybe you don't care as much for
something like the account
settings on some product, but
you care about that first load, and
you're gonna monitor that over time.
And as you're shipping new features,
you don't wanna exceed that.
And if you are, maybe you're going back to
the drawing board of talking about how do
we not do that, and that's kind of putting
that baseline that you don't wanna exceed.
The important one on this one is this
is not something me, as a manager,
think about some of these things, and
maybe have suggestions on what to measure
or what I think is important for the team.
But with OKRs, as well as KPIs,
I wanna involve the team.
Maybe there's ways that I'm not thinking
about to back to be OKR, we need to
improve the performance, well what are
things that we should be doing to do that?
Obviously engineers are gonna have
better insights than me, and so
I wanna include them on that,
I want them to be bought in, too.
I don't wanna come top down and say this
is what we're doing, people aren't gonna
be as bought into that, and also they
have really great insights to share.